Notable Deadlines:
  LACompLing  May 15
  EMNLP       May 22
  ACS         May 25
  CoNLL       June 11

Over Spring Break:
  - Started cleaning up implicative rules from Stratos to fit ULF inference
    (tense and progressive).  Perfective seemed problematic since it requires
    explicitly relating to the original utterance time, which ULF doesn't have
    a good way to do.  Let me know if you have time to look over some that I've
    come up with so far.  These would be the basis for both the human inference
    guidelines and the inference system.

By Friday:
  - Get through more of the implicative rules (maybe all?).  There are a lot,
    but I'm not sure how many types.
  - Setup website for inference annotation.

Next week:
  - Get preliminary human inference website up and start debugging design
    issues.

Issues to discuss:
  - How to handle verb class dependent inferences? e.g.
    "John began running" => "John has run"
    "John began building a house" =/=> "John has built a house"
    What's I'm doing now:
      "John began running" -> "John was running" (immediately following reference time)
      "John began building a house" -> "John was building a house" (immediately following ref time)
    Similar for other aspectual verbs: continue, stop, ...

    Probably ignore: would enable new inferences, but not interesting since
    this has been done by many systems before.  We can discuss in the paper
    that this feature could be added easily -- and should be in a full system.

    Lookup: Phil Kohan?

  - How to handle perfective inferences when there are already modals involved?
    x allows y to p -> y (can.aux-v p)
    x allowed y to p -> y ((past can.aux-v) p), probably y ((pres can.aux-v) p)
    x will allow y to p -> y (will.aux-s (can.aux-v p))? OR 'y will have
      permission to p' BUT isn't this just a paraphrase of 'y will be allowed to
      p' which the passive construction.

    x had allowed y to p -> y ((past can.aux-v) p), but isn't this different from the simple past construction of allow?
    x had allowed y to p -> y had can p? OR 'y had been allowed to p' OR 'y had permission to p' OR 'y (past can.aux-v) p'?  

    NEW INFERENCE:
    x allowed y to p -> y probably did p

    *Probabilistic so that any counterfactual statements can diffuse it. E.g.
      (1) x allowed y to p 
      (2) -> y probably did p
      (3) but y ended up needing to do q instead 
      (4) -> y did not p


  - It seems we'll need to address the fact that these inferences only work if
    the fully scoped interpretations match across inferences and whatever
    system using these inferences will need to handle it (e.g. de re vs de dicto readings)
    
      "x did not allow y to p"
        -> "y could not p"
      Does the negation or the past tense outscope?  If past outscopes then
      it's a de re reading, similar to at the some salient reference past time
      "x did not allow y to p".  If the negation outscopes then the de dicto
      reading is similar to "x never allowed y to p".

    AFTER DISCUSSION:
      This is a discourse phenomenon that relates more largely to timeframes
      and temporal adverbials.  The actual time frame of a statement cannot be
      fully analyzed without the discourse context, which would allow these
      inferences to be treated properly in accordance with each other.  Notice
      that there are other issues such as present tense during story
      recounting: "The other day I had the weirdest thing happen.  So I go to
      the store, buy some food, ...".  Similarly using past tense for past
      perfect after frame setting: "LRRH had left the house early in the
      morning.  She then went to the woods, walked past the ...".



   - How to mark inferences that are true immediately after a reference time?
      e.g. "John began running" -> "John was running" immediately after time referenced in antecedent.
           "I was allowed to p" -> "I can p" immediately after 'allowing'
     Contrast with:
      "John knew that I was a man" -> "I was a man" coextensive times
     Also with:
      "I neglected to water the plant" -> "I didn't water the plant" coextensive

     RELATED: what's the difference between "The officer ascertained that John (is/was) sober"?
      They seem to mean the same thing but 'is' is respective to the
      'ascertaining' time and 'was' is respective to utterance time, but that
      doesn't seem like a satisfactory analysis because there's nothing that
      seems to cause this switch...  I guess there's an ambiguity in the reference time:
        "The officer ascertained that John was sober that night"
        "The officer ascertained that John is sober *(tonight)" -- requires
        that 'John is sober' extends to utterance time even though the
        'ascertaining' was in the past (i.e. 'ascertaining' event was recent
        enough that the soberness of John hasn't changed)

    AFTER DISCUSSION:
      This issue seems to fall under a few categories:
        1. Negation maximally scopes over the reference time.
           Relatedly, telicity and negation interacts such that negated
           expressions didn't happen, but if the expression can be broken down
           into an atelic subcomponent that can be true: "I didn't finish building
           the house, but I did work on it".
        2. Statives of course have coextensive inferences, whereas change of
           state verbs of course have inferences that are true immediately after
           the statement reference time.
      BUT, how do we mark these in the inference information?


  MORE GENERAL:
    There's the issue that all statements express the speaker beliefs rather
    than true world state.  The assumption that they speak of the world state
    can be assumed without too much issue in discourses where the speakers are
    speaking sincerely and carefully (e.g. joint problem solving domain).  The
    machinery necessary for making more subtle inferences about statements
    being about speaker beliefs can be added on top of these inferences as
    necessary.


