Gene Kim 2/8/2018

The Grammatical Ingredients of Counterfactuality
Sabine Iatridou

See some of the notes in the grep patterns for counterfactuals.

Morphological and aspectual factors influencing counterfactuals are shared
between wish and conditionals.  The factors in the conditional consequent are
lexicalized in wish as evidenced by the analysis of Greek.  In Greek 'wish' is
said by adding morphological and aspectual markers to the verb translating to
'want'.  Those markers correspond to the consequent in conditionals that lead
to counterfactuality.  

Also, these markers correspond to past tense thus leading to a 'fake past' phenomenon.
The past tense seems to be overloaded with counterfactuality:
  "I wish I was tall" (past tense) -> "I am not tall" (present tense)
  "I wish I had owned a car" (pluperfect) -> "I did not own a car" (past tense)

Iatridou argues this is because the "past tense morpheme" has the following meaning schema:
  T(x) excludes C(x)
where T(x) is "Topic(x)" and C(x) is "the x that for all we know is the x of the speaker"

Thus where x is times:
  T(x): the time interval we are talking about (i.e. topic time)
  C(x): the time interval that for all we know is the time of the speaker (i.e. utterance time)
So T(x) exludes C(x) -> topic time excludes utterance time
Given the treatment of future as a modal operation this means that the topic
time is before the utterance time (i.e. past tense)

Where x is worlds:
  T(x): the worlds we are talking about (i.e. topic worlds)
  C(x): the worlds that for all we know is the worlds of the speaker (i.e. actual world)
So T(x) excludes C(x) -> topic worlds exclude the actual world
Thus the topic worlds can be counterfactual to the actual world (in fact at
least one thing must be counterfactual, so some relevant aspect of it given the
context and assertion).

Also, telics and activities lead to the "future less livid" (FLV) interpretation.  This
is not counterfactual, but the it is unlikely to happen. Statives lead to counterfactuals.
Stage-level statives can be either depending on the context.

Telic (FLV):
  If he took the syrup, he would get better
  If you gave him that book, he would read it
  If he read this book, he would pass his exams
Individual-level Statives (CF):
  If I knew this were chocolate, I would eat it
  If I were/was tall, I would be able to reach the ceiling
  If Peter smoked/were a smoker, I would not like him
Stage-level Statives (FLV or CF):
  If he were drunk at meetings, the boss would be angry (FLV)
  If he were drunk, he would get louder (CF)

-- can we do a similar analysis for gerunds + perfect aspect + progressives + copula
   to pose a theory of why they have shared surface structures?

